Java email administration.
In this project we are going to learn basic Java project focused on.
Object oriented design in real world application.
So this is an email administration project where all the email details like creating mail using first
name and last name, then giving the company department like related to that company department, then
creating some system generated password assigning to that particular email.
We are going to create here email administration project likewise that.
So in this project we are going to learn some basic concepts of Java, object oriented design of Java,
then abstraction of Java, like how we can secure our password and everything, like abstract that password.
Also we are going to learn how we can execute or create some files in Java itself, like file handling
in the Java.
So after creating all the details like email their password, first name, last name, we are going
to store that particular data or information in a text file.
So let's see how we can proceed with this project.
So first we are going to learn or we are going to see our project aim.
So consider you are an I.T. support administrator, administrator or something like that.
Your post or what we are going to do is your your task is creating email accounts for new hires or new
employees.
For that purpose, you need first name and last name only from the user.
Or we can say for the new employees.
So using that you are going to create.
Email your email with another details.
So steps of our development or for this project is first is project set up how we are going to set up
all things in this basic fundamental concepts in Java.
We are going to use Java code basically here accessing classes, methods or all the abstractions of
in classes in Java.
Here we are going to see basic concepts creating objects, classes, methods, file handling, java.
Basically we are going to create one text file, txt file and we are going to store all the data in
it and we are going to retrieve that information also.
Creating a single execution file of just like why in this project we are going to create multiple classes
or Java files, but after that we are compiling it into the single executing jar file.
So this is our basic project or steps of development.
We are going to use here.
So our application requirements so we can see how we can proceed with our requirements.
First, we are going to need a one JDK.
I'm going to explain that what you mean by JDK in Java.
And second is ID ID basically integrated development environment for Java.
So there are multiple IDs in this field.
We are going to see how we can use that for our application.
First is.
Our basic thing is generating an email with syntax like first name.
Last name added it department.
We are going to provide dot company dot com.
So here first name last name last name and department is given from the user or we can say new hire
from.
So for the department of department we are I'm considering here sales, development and accounting here.
Or if none is given from the new employee, then that blank will be there in email.
Generate random string for the password.
And so a third aim of that application.
Applications should have some set methods to change the password.
Then set the mailbox capacity.
Basically the mail capacity and the define the alternate email address.
This is also going from the user only or we can say new higher only.
It should have some great methods to display the name, email and the mailbox capacity when we are going
to track that email address also.
And it should have some file handling methods or we can say of file handling methods to store some data
in the file so it will store data and retrieve data also.
So this is our application requirements and here we are going to use JDK, basically Java Development
Kit and ID integrated development environment to tools we required.
So as I mentioned, we needed some ID.
So for the Java development, I am going to use your intel idea.
So we are going to use integer area as our ID for the Java development.
So in this project we are going to build our whole project using this ID.
For the JDK or Java, we are going to use your Java SC, which is Standard Edition 16 generation JDK
for the Java development.
So from these websites you can download it and you can use it, utilize it.
So for this, you need to download as per your system requirements.
There are two versions of this ID Ultimate and community.
You can download it and for Java SC you have to download JDK here and you have to install it once you
installed it.
Its ID will automatically detect the path of that JDK.
So this is about all your tools we required.
So first let us see what you mean by JID JV team and JDK.
So just downloaded the JDK, Java SC, Virgin Standard Edition version 16 we downloaded is basically
JDK, so JDK contents and JVM.
So JVM is the smallest part of JDK.
So Gvm is the Java virtual machine, as the name suggests.
No physically exists.
It's not physically exist on your system.
Its virtual machine, but its main name is or a main function is, which provides the runtime environment
in which Java bytecode executes.
So what is meant by bytecode is basically you are creating some Java syntax or its higher level language
you are writing but machine knows the lower level language 1010 machine level language.
So it converts that byte code and executes that bytecode.
It also run programs in other languages but compiled in Java.
So basically if you created some other languages, I mean by Kotlin, awesome.
These are the supports this supports the game also.
So what is the main functions of Jamie's?
It's loads the code, it's verifies the code.
It executes the code and it provides the runtime environment.
Second part is Jerry.
Java runtime environment.
What is the jig is?
It is the set of tools library and some Java files.
Java archive files.
It's used in the Java applications programs that we are going to create and it provides the implementation
of Java.
It physically exists in JDK as you runtime environment is just a set of programs, protocols in JDK.
JDK Java Development Kit.
It contains Java GVM Java compiler.
Java versions, basically different versions.
All the related files and everything it contains.
And let's see.
What is the structure of that?
It looks like JVM, JIRA and JDK.
So JDK is the superclass, or we can say all the union class of JD and GM.
So GM is the smallest part.
Java Virtual Machine.
Then Java runtime environment contains some set of libraries, jar files, some other files.
Also, it contains and it contains JVM also.
So this creates G and this is development tools contains Java files, Java compiler files, Java files
and Java JVM all makes JDK.
So just we downloaded the JDK, it contains the JVM, JIRA and everything.
It will execute our Java file and it will give the desired output.
What we are going to proceed with.
So this is the basic concepts of JID JV.
And now we will see how we can set up our environment or our project for our application.
Email Administration application.
Once you install installed our ID intelligent idea you can see this welcome screen.
Or before that I already installed in my system.
So before that you should set some configuration like font taste everything.
So once this is done, you can see this screen.
So here I am going to create new project here.
New project.
So it will take time to create a new project.
So once a new project I'm going to create here, once this screen is loaded, you have to specify your
JDK or we can say here SDK so it will automatically detect your SDK.
Here I'm using.
16 Virgin object.
So I'm choosing this.
No need to install any additional libraries like Groovy or Kotlin here or no need to specify some user
defined libraries also.
Just click the next.
Or don't check this, it will create some default template.
We don't want to create some default template here.
Create next.
Before that, give the project name and project location.
So for this, I'm going to specify the project name as.
Email application.
You can specify your name, also project name.
I'm going to specify email application.
Click the finish.
It will take time to create indexing and everything, but it will once it slow, it will show the screen
also.
So wait for creating a new project.
It will take time.
Wait for it.
Showing the loading here, you can see.
So wait for that.
Scanning and indexing everything.
It will automatically create all the folders related to our project.
So now we are done with our setup.
So we specify the JDK.
Then we created our new project.
Now you can see this is our project email application and you can see all the related files here.
That is dot idea.
Then folder is a main folder we are going to create here all the applications here.
Then this is email file and all the external libraries and everything.
So here this is only Java files we are going to use.
So this is not at all required to see.
And this is main file we are going to use.
So we are done with our setup.
Now we will see how we can proceed with our project.
So once all this setup is done and all the things are indexed and loaded.
Now what you are going to do is.
Click this on.
See?
Right click here.
It will take time to load.
So just right click here.
It will do all the options related to this.
Click on new.
You can see every option what we can make in this.
So what we needed, we needed create some Java files so we need to create Java class.
But before that, what I'm going to do is I'm creating these Java classes we are going to proceed with
in some package.
What is meant by package in Java is I'm going to store that specific classes in some files.
So this is very basic project.
In further projects, we are going to create some large projects.
In that part.
We need to create some different packages like in the industry.
Also, once for the small, small requirements we can create small, small packages.
So once package is done.
Specify the name.
You can see the package here.
So I given the name has email app here for that package.
It will create some simple folder for that classes.
Now use this email app.
Right.
Click on that.
And here I'm going to create class.
For this, we need to create two classes.
So what is the requirement of creating two classes?
You will ask.
So in one class we are going to create main method, which is basically executing method and in another
Java file or class we are going to create.
Or we are going to specify all our methods.
So first let's see that method part or we can see what we are going to specify in that part.
Let's see in that.
So first I'm going to create Java class and in this specify name for this Java class as email, I'm
going to give as email.
Once it is done, it will.
Nor that class.
So as you can see, it will load this class for us.
With some default structure.
Let us see.
What is this structure for us?
You can hide this part also here.
I'm going to leave this and let's see what is this?
Basically structures.
This is package name, email app we created under this and this is our class.
So we are done with the primary setup of this like public class mail.
This is the class syntax for that we will in the folder this we are going to see how we can proceed
with our what is mean by class methods everything and we can proceed with our project in this.